docs/user_guide.md, before:

# User Guide

![Unijoysticle 2](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/5z64MnH33BL75in0eUzcMZeayM6dUNELabYsVOB-fAuXg1LogRnEZN3G132GyiEIxGKzLtu-ZNaZyxh4UwsJbNI9UwP4f19cHUyUsJkge__LU6sLx3pXXtcNG3kAuNhCuoPcRgUDaL4=-no)

- Toggle Mode button: Toggles between "Basic" and "Enhanced" modes
- Reboot button: Reboots the Unijoysticle 2
- LEDs: Green/Red LEDs turn on when Joystick 1/Joystick 2 are attached

## Soldering the kit

All components are through-hole. The only components that have polarity are the LEDs and the diode.
See graphic for reference:

![Solering the kit](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/ZTu0iD57vqErS4Db-EeZyetXIQoKDy9E449kEcDra5ZAmpwThNIXn8jBqcDD87YzG1pip65pEcRpCkp2hKvoVQL1PpANQ766RERK4ecsmgYYdreZuJID4AX9zx7e3el4v3YggfPN4FM=-no)

An assembled + soldered kit should look like this:

![Assembled kit](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/ajmUdFVA07CQ-HD-Z7w5bQ8Ehf92yn07OGGAG7KtJ-6NTYPcR7L1pfNEfjhBFYwxOR8zb6hFmFuHY9WvX81-PWAtoh0-bU1ez5l87fhbDvOaTmwdqO0MHizSjWBAnSh7Vo59RdISxZM=-no)



Neded components:

- 1 x Unijoysticle 2 PCB
- 1 x ESP32 Mini Kit (and its pins)
- 2 x 74HC05N ICs
- 2 x 14p DIP sockets for the 7405s
- 1 x standard green LED 3mm ~25mA
- 1 x standard red LED 3mm ~25mA
- 2 x 150 ohm resistors
- 1 x tactile button
- 2 x db9 female connectors
- 1 x 1N4001 diode
- 1 x DC Power Barrel Jack

You can source the components from here:

- Unijoysticle 2 PCB from: [PCBWay (blue)][3] or [PCBWay (black)][11] or [OSHPark][4]
- ESP32 devkit from: [ESP32 Mini Kit (blue)][5] or [ESP32 TTGO Mini (black)][12]
  -  extra [pins might be needed][6]
- [Remaining components][7] (you must be logged in into DigiKey)

## Flashing the firmware

See: [firmware_setup.md][1]

## Power on

The Unijoysticle 2 can be powered either with:

- USB: Connect a USB-micro cable into the ESP32 mini kit module.
  - If powered from a computer, it is great for debugging since you can see the console
- Power Jack Barrel with a 5V+ / ~250mA
  - Self-powered in case you connect it to the C64/C128 datasette port.
  - Polarity: positive polarity (tip=+5v, sleeve=0v)

It is safe to plug both the USB and Jack Barrel at the same time, but that won't
give you any additional benefit.

## Booting

You should see the two LEDS (green and red) blink one for ~1 second.
The Unijoysticle 2 will be ready once both LEDs are off.

## Using Gamepads

The first gamepad to connect will control joystick #2.
The second gamepad to connect will use the available joystick.

If you want to control joystick #1, and you only have one gamepad connected,
you have to press the "swap" button in the gamepad.

![swap joystick](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/jT3RiP75ffx9zWv2Csq3LGl5aFvhwKTt4sk0XkWrr9eyOBSo89ICTf6VzLrsRCGmI3vvbLtwbC1OqSnqR8_P51HR063qZjpOaLLSDE4DHaWLjxy8zi4FyoitwMAM3tPVMkoiQpYNQNk=-no)

The "swap" button varies from gamepad to gamepad, but usually it is mapped to
the big button in the center. In the Xbox One it is the "Xbox" button.

If two gamepads are connected, then the swap button is disabled.

The gamepad could be in two possible modes:

- Basic mode: one gamepad controlls one joystick.
- Enhanced mode: one gamepad controlls the two joysticks.

### Basic mode

![basic mode](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/hkoAJbbtSpY53cpU-FO76QjTOPwuwWgDiKhQuNdbWnSwiozcqUloeOHuPclvunSC3vjH55n8Og-_cZO2ZTq6BhEbKOc0gb3qmASyLMC7BfAbTBNXjrV2LxzJu8-q0cDMexzOYlD4QE8=-no)

"Basic mode" is what you would expect, with the additional benefit that
Button B is mapped to "jump". Ideal for platform games like Giana Sisters,
Super Mario Bros, Mayhem in Monsterland, etc.

- D-pad/joypad: controls up/down/left/right
- Button A: fire button
- Button B: "up"  (ideal for platform games)
- Button shoulder-right: autofire
- System button swaps between Joystick #1 and #2

### Enhanced mode

![enhanced mode](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/89CUlpgxrnDJ8b5hXdvHCi-X7d-2a6r6qP5vJbnFJWAHObfCsYy7Flq7pYpwrv-qXy-dT_-Jk02tgWQpgwnedKrC5STNhpl_Xd2OtJ8lgP3PnEvKDIiumTB_PZHdg5qCxsEZLc5-dWU=-no)

In Enhanced mode, you control both joysticks from only one gamepad.
Since "Button B" is mapped to "J1 fire" this is great for games like
[Commmando][10] or [1942][9] since you can throw grenades / do rolls with it.
It also opens up the possibility to create games that require more controls,
like [Robotron: 2084][8]

- Left joypad / d-pad: control Joystick #2 movements
- Right joypad: control Joystick #1 movements
- Button A: fire for Joystick #2
- Button B: fire for Joystick #1
- Button Shoulder Left: auto-fire for Joystick #1
- Button Shoulder Right: auto-fire for Joystick #2

## Troubleshooting

### Gamepad cannot connect

This could be due to a lot of things. Assuming that you are using a [supported gamepad][2], try:

- Make sure that the red and green LEDs are off. Meaning that BT is ready.
  Reboot the device and try again.
 
- Reboot the Unijoysticle. Press the Reset button that is placed in the ESP32 Mini Kit
  And try again.

- Press the Reboot + Toggle-Mode buttons at the same time.
  This will reboot the Unijoysticle while also deleting the stored BT keys.
  Any try again.

- Put the gamepad in BT discovery mode. And try again.

If none of the above works, file a bug (see below).

### Both green and red LEDs are always on after booting

This means that the BT stack is not ready yet. It shouldn't take more than one second to be ready.
Try rebooting the device. If they are still on, file a bug (see below).

### Gamepad cannot re-connect

Assuming tha the gamepad connects Ok for the first time, but fails to reconnect then:

- Press the Reboot + Toggle-Mode buttons at the same time.
  This will reboot the Unijoysticle while also deleting the stored BT keys.
  Any try again.

- Put the gamepad in BT discovery mode. And try again.

If none of the above works, file a bug (see below).

## Reporting bugs

File bugs in Gitlab project: https://gitlab.com/ricardoquesada/unijoysticle2/issues

[1]: firmware_setup.md
[2]: supported_gamepads.md
[3]: https://www.pcbway.com/project/shareproject/Unijoysticle_2.html
[4]: https://oshpark.com/shared_projects/l32mADi8
[5]: https://www.aliexpress.com/store/product/MH-ET-LIVE-ESP32-MINI-KIT-WiFi-Bluetooth-Internet-of-Things-development-board-based-ESP8266-Fully/2348158_32819107932.html?spm=a2g0x.12010108.1000001.12.56543b1cEQVriV
[6]: https://www.aliexpress.com/item/10PCS-40Pin-1x40P-2-54mm-Male-Breakable-Single-Row-Pin-Header-Strip-Connector-For-Arduino/32973539561.html?spm=2114.search0104.3.9.158d2b70wty222
[7]: https://www.digikey.com/short/pprdhv
[8]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robotron:_2084
[9]: https://csdb.dk/release/?id=38140
[10]: https://csdb.dk/release/?id=137173
[11]: https://www.pcbway.com/project/shareproject/Unijoysticle_2__black_edition_.html
[12]: https://www.aliexpress.com/item/TTGO-MINI32-V2-0-13-ESP32-rev1-rev-one-WiFi-Bluetooth-Module-For-D1-mini/32845357819.html?spm=a2g0s.9042311.0.0.6dd64c4diLRDMz

Commit message:

users guide: add refernce to power on/plugged in

docs/user_guide.md, after:

# User Guide

![Unijoysticle 2](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/5z64MnH33BL75in0eUzcMZeayM6dUNELabYsVOB-fAuXg1LogRnEZN3G132GyiEIxGKzLtu-ZNaZyxh4UwsJbNI9UwP4f19cHUyUsJkge__LU6sLx3pXXtcNG3kAuNhCuoPcRgUDaL4=-no)

- Toggle Mode button: Toggles between "Basic" and "Enhanced" modes
- Reboot button: Reboots the Unijoysticle 2
- LEDs: Green/Red LEDs turn on when Joystick 1/Joystick 2 are attached

## Soldering the kit

All components are through-hole. The only components that have polarity are the LEDs and the diode.
See graphic for reference:

![Solering the kit](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/ZTu0iD57vqErS4Db-EeZyetXIQoKDy9E449kEcDra5ZAmpwThNIXn8jBqcDD87YzG1pip65pEcRpCkp2hKvoVQL1PpANQ766RERK4ecsmgYYdreZuJID4AX9zx7e3el4v3YggfPN4FM=-no)

An assembled + soldered kit should look like this:

![Assembled kit](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/ajmUdFVA07CQ-HD-Z7w5bQ8Ehf92yn07OGGAG7KtJ-6NTYPcR7L1pfNEfjhBFYwxOR8zb6hFmFuHY9WvX81-PWAtoh0-bU1ez5l87fhbDvOaTmwdqO0MHizSjWBAnSh7Vo59RdISxZM=-no)

Neded components:

- 1 x Unijoysticle 2 PCB
- 1 x ESP32 Mini Kit (and its pins)
- 2 x 74HC05N ICs
- 2 x 14p DIP sockets for the 7405s
- 1 x standard green LED 3mm ~25mA
- 1 x standard red LED 3mm ~25mA
- 2 x 150 ohm resistors
- 1 x tactile button
- 2 x db9 female connectors
- 1 x 1N4001 diode
- 1 x DC Power Barrel Jack

You can source the components from here:

- Unijoysticle 2 PCB from: [PCBWay (blue)][3] or [PCBWay (black)][11] or [OSHPark][4]
- ESP32 devkit from: [ESP32 Mini Kit (blue)][5] or [ESP32 TTGO Mini (black)][12]
  - extra [pins might be needed][6]
- [Remaining components][7] (you must be logged in into DigiKey)

## Flashing the firmware

See: [firmware_setup.md][1]

## Power on

The Unijoysticle 2 can be powered either with:

- USB: Connect a USB-micro cable into the ESP32 mini kit module.
  - If powered from a computer, it is great for debugging since you can see the console
- Power Jack Barrel with a 5V+ / ~250mA
  - Self-powered in case you connect it to the C64/C128 datasette port.
  - Polarity: positive polarity (tip=+5v, sleeve=0v)

It is safe to plug both the USB and Jack Barrel at the same time, but that won't
give you any additional benefit.

**IMPORTANT**: If the Unijoysticle is plugged-in into the Commodore, but it is not powered on,
it might generate noise in the Joystick lines. Since the joystick lines are also shared by
the keyboard, it might be possible that certain keys might not work. See: https://gitlab.com/ricardoquesada/unijoysticle2/issues/8

## Booting

You should see the two LEDS (green and red) blink one for ~1 second.
The Unijoysticle 2 will be ready once both LEDs are off.

## Using Gamepads

The first gamepad to connect will control joystick #2.
The second gamepad to connect will use the available joystick.

If you want to control joystick #1, and you only have one gamepad connected,
you have to press the "swap" button in the gamepad.

![swap joystick](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/jT3RiP75ffx9zWv2Csq3LGl5aFvhwKTt4sk0XkWrr9eyOBSo89ICTf6VzLrsRCGmI3vvbLtwbC1OqSnqR8_P51HR063qZjpOaLLSDE4DHaWLjxy8zi4FyoitwMAM3tPVMkoiQpYNQNk=-no)

The "swap" button varies from gamepad to gamepad, but usually it is mapped to
the big button in the center. In the Xbox One it is the "Xbox" button.

If two gamepads are connected, then the swap button is disabled.

The gamepad could be in two possible modes:

- Basic mode: one gamepad controlls one joystick.
- Enhanced mode: one gamepad controlls the two joysticks.

### Basic mode

![basic mode](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/hkoAJbbtSpY53cpU-FO76QjTOPwuwWgDiKhQuNdbWnSwiozcqUloeOHuPclvunSC3vjH55n8Og-_cZO2ZTq6BhEbKOc0gb3qmASyLMC7BfAbTBNXjrV2LxzJu8-q0cDMexzOYlD4QE8=-no)

"Basic mode" is what you would expect, with the additional benefit that
Button B is mapped to "jump". Ideal for platform games like Giana Sisters,
Super Mario Bros, Mayhem in Monsterland, etc.

- D-pad/joypad: controls up/down/left/right
- Button A: fire button
- Button B: "up"  (ideal for platform games)
- Button shoulder-right: autofire
- System button swaps between Joystick #1 and #2

### Enhanced mode

![enhanced mode](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/89CUlpgxrnDJ8b5hXdvHCi-X7d-2a6r6qP5vJbnFJWAHObfCsYy7Flq7pYpwrv-qXy-dT_-Jk02tgWQpgwnedKrC5STNhpl_Xd2OtJ8lgP3PnEvKDIiumTB_PZHdg5qCxsEZLc5-dWU=-no)

In Enhanced mode, you control both joysticks from only one gamepad.
Since "Button B" is mapped to "J1 fire" this is great for games like
[Commmando][10] or [1942][9] since you can throw grenades / do rolls with it.
It also opens up the possibility to create games that require more controls,
like [Robotron: 2084][8]

- Left joypad / d-pad: control Joystick #2 movements
- Right joypad: control Joystick #1 movements
- Button A: fire for Joystick #2
- Button B: fire for Joystick #1
- Button Shoulder Left: auto-fire for Joystick #1
- Button Shoulder Right: auto-fire for Joystick #2

## Troubleshooting

### Gamepad cannot connect

This could be due to a lot of things. Assuming that you are using a [supported gamepad][2], try:

- Make sure that the red and green LEDs are off. Meaning that BT is ready.
  Reboot the device and try again.

- Reboot the Unijoysticle. Press the Reset button that is placed in the ESP32 Mini Kit
  And try again.

- Press the Reboot + Toggle-Mode buttons at the same time.
  This will reboot the Unijoysticle while also deleting the stored BT keys.
  Any try again.

- Put the gamepad in BT discovery mode. And try again.

If none of the above works, file a bug (see below).

### Both green and red LEDs are always on after booting

This means that the BT stack is not ready yet. It shouldn't take more than one second to be ready.
Try rebooting the device. If they are still on, file a bug (see below).

### Gamepad cannot re-connect

Assuming tha the gamepad connects Ok for the first time, but fails to reconnect then:

- Press the Reboot + Toggle-Mode buttons at the same time.
  This will reboot the Unijoysticle while also deleting the stored BT keys.
  Any try again.

- Put the gamepad in BT discovery mode. And try again.

If none of the above works, file a bug (see below).

## Reporting bugs

File bugs in Gitlab project: https://gitlab.com/ricardoquesada/unijoysticle2/issues

[1]: firmware_setup.md
[2]: supported_gamepads.md
[3]: https://www.pcbway.com/project/shareproject/Unijoysticle_2.html
[4]: https://oshpark.com/shared_projects/l32mADi8
[5]: https://www.aliexpress.com/store/product/MH-ET-LIVE-ESP32-MINI-KIT-WiFi-Bluetooth-Internet-of-Things-development-board-based-ESP8266-Fully/2348158_32819107932.html?spm=a2g0x.12010108.1000001.12.56543b1cEQVriV
[6]: https://www.aliexpress.com/item/10PCS-40Pin-1x40P-2-54mm-Male-Breakable-Single-Row-Pin-Header-Strip-Connector-For-Arduino/32973539561.html?spm=2114.search0104.3.9.158d2b70wty222
[7]: https://www.digikey.com/short/pprdhv
[8]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robotron:_2084
[9]: https://csdb.dk/release/?id=38140
[10]: https://csdb.dk/release/?id=137173
[11]: https://www.pcbway.com/project/shareproject/Unijoysticle_2__black_edition_.html
[12]: https://www.aliexpress.com/item/TTGO-MINI32-V2-0-13-ESP32-rev1-rev-one-WiFi-Bluetooth-Module-For-D1-mini/32845357819.html?spm=a2g0s.9042311.0.0.6dd64c4diLRDMz
